


DASHBOARD




BACKGROUND
- front-end interview question (you basically get either a dashboard, a chat app, or something simple like rate limiter)



RESOURCES
- my own interview experience




REQUIREMENTS
- there's an analytical dashboard
- it has a ton of widgets



OUT OF SCOPE:
- write operations
    - there may have been some kind of "generate report" button, but I completely missed that opportunity





NUMBERS:
- 1000 TPS reads





APPROACHES:



Rendering approaches:

client-side rendering
Pros:
 - less complex
Cons:
 - higher latency

server-side rendering
Pros:
 - faster page loads (lower latency)
Cons:
 - duplicated rendering logic
 - could be bandwidth bound

JSON blob approach
Pros:
 - still fairly faster page loads (lower latency)
 - no duplication of rendering logic
Cons:
 - might be a little more complex




Data fetching approach:

Non-aggregated
Pros:
 - stronger consistency
Cons:
 - tail end latency amplifications
 - eventual consistency

Pre-aggregated
Pros:
 - probably faster page load times (you don't depend on the response times of upstream services)
Cons:
 - eventual consistency

Sometimes you can do both




Widget decoupling strategy






AGENDA:


- client side rendering
1) get index.html shell file
2) retrieve assets from CDN
3) make a bunch of back-end calls

- client side rendering
1) get index.html
2) retrieve assets from CDN
3) make a call to aggregated endpoint

- server-side rendering
1) call comes into the back-end server
2) either pre-cached data OR a bunch of API calls
3) return the pre-rendered HTML

- JSON blob approach
1) call comes into the back-end server
2) either pre-cached data OR a bunch of API calls
3) return a shell index.html file with an attached JSON blob
4) pull assets from CDN




Widget decoupling strategy











--------------------
LIVE DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:









Hey, do you follow the book "System Design Interview" by Lewis Len?
Yes, I do have that book! :)
I like Stanley Chiang's too



is the pre cached data and cdn for historical data? i thought dashboards usually refresh at a frequent rate to get new data from the backend?
depends on how stale that data can get



would depends on what kind of charts are we looking. Say for stock ticker, it would send data through push/socket and asks application/client to update data in chart itself



For static charts(updates once a day or so), cdn would help just like bundled js



SEO capability — Since the page load happens in server side, it is easier for the SEO crawlers to search, explore content and index the pages.






The equivalent of this in the industry is - "Design Grafana" ?




I think CDN would be needed in case there's some video/giphy? Otherwise response would be kind of big



If its hosted within an iFrame, then a CDN is still required to perform filters, slicing on SSR payload?


CDN will host the js bundles which has the slicing functions




what is the difference between the last one and pre-aggregated, server side rendering?

- pre-aggregated, server side rendering
uses a cache

- the last one (the side-loaded JSON blob)
does not use a cache (for stronger consistency)





Did we discuss the tech for caching store and data layout, etc.?
Thanks! :)



In interview were you given specific info whether you want to design real time/static dashboard, non predictable dashboard?
You should clarify that with the interviewer for sure -- whether stale data is tolerated






I personally used MongoDB as aggregated cache using _id. Worked with way less $$ than redis
"caching"



1) How to handle streaming data say for a time chart?
that might require a socket -- for continuous updating without resfreshing the page
if page refreshes are fine, you can just have more fresh data from not not passing that data throught the caching data store

2) If alerting is in scope - for breaching thresholds, at what layer should the alert rules be stored?
alerts do not come from dashboard



what's in schemaless_JSON_blob? states of widget?
anything you want, possibly in ion format





where the aggregated data aggregated stored ?
DynamoDB / MongoDB



For the Hybrid approach, what is the purple color rectangle in your diagram?


or it is that front end will call aggregated data service which would call the service a , b apis




@Jitendra Vyas hmm why don't we use MQ here? Can service push msg to MQ and then the "some task runner" service push data to cache?





Or other approach is "some task runner" is like a cronjob, and it will runs for every 5 mins?




you're right actually. That purple box is blackbox here to state purpose of there's some event that says there's data update in system






what messages are store inside the purple msg broker kafka?






ny relevant info, new aggregated data available in system








how can we integrate real time data capturing elements like web sockets or sse?



hmm so can service A, B, C push to mq and then "some task runners" will consume it? 





i mean push data to UI instead of pull 






For the hybrid approach, I see you combine both the pre-aggregate and non-aggregate. Suppose that we have a client request, how can we decide which way should we do?
it does both






What does the js bundle for the CDN widget for each service have?
{
    user1234_configA: {
        lineChartWidget: "{
            lineData: [5,6,9,2]
        }",
        pieChartWidget: "{
            sessionMap: {
                email: 982
                social: 968
                display: 910
            }
        }",
        tableWidget: "{
            //
        }"
    }
}


















